[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
One day, I was in a supermarket,
grocery store of some kind.
And there was a little kiosk
with some paperback books.
And I was a bit
bored, and then I
started looking
through the books.
And there was one,
and the title of it
was Books That
Changed The World.
And when I saw that title,
I just read the title.
I felt a shiver go
up and down my spine.
The hair on the back
of my neck stood up.
You mean books can
change the world?
Because I love to read.
Books can actually
change the world?
Books have changed the world?
This is a book about books
that have changed the world?
Books have changed the world?
That idea was just
riveting to me.
And I started to think, wow.
Wow.
That's a different
world than I know,
a world that can be changed
by books, by thinking,
by deep thoughts.
And I was reading, at
the time, two books
that really meant a lot to me.
And one was the Essays
of Ralph Waldo Emerson.
And a particular essay on
self-reliance, basically saying,
be true to yourself.
And I took that
very much to heart.
I loved hearing that from him.
It was what I needed to hear.
I sensed that if my parents
knew what Emerson was saying,
they would forbid
me to read the book.
It felt like really
revolutionary.
And so I kept Emerson's Essays
between my mattress and box
spring, where they
would never see it.
And it got badly squished.
I still have that
book, by the way.
The binding is all squished
because I slept on it.
But I would pull it out and
read it, and then put it back.
And it was just
like this is covert.
Oh, my God.
And the other book,
1962, was published,
Silent Spring by Rachel Carson.
And I read that book
when it first came out.
And I was like, oh, my God.
It was so poetic.
It was so beautiful.
And it spoke.
She had this knack of
helping me as a reader feel
connected to the natural world,
in a way that I never had,
and also to know
about the peril we
were in with the introduction of
pesticides and toxic chemicals.
The book's title
came from the reality
that she was presenting, that if
we continued on the path we were
with pesticide-based
agriculture,
a spring would come, and there
would be no birds singing.
No birds would
come back in spring
because they were all
dying from the pesticides
we were using, starting
to use to grow our food.
And I, at that very, very early
age, started to think about,
can we grow our food
without poisons?
Is that even possible?
Can we feed the world
without poisons?
Because I don't want
to kill all the birds.
Because I want to
live in the world
that Rachel Carson
introduced me to.
And so those two books,
Rachel Carson's book.
Silent Spring.
And Emerson's Essays,
and some other books
that I read, I was thinking,
I wonder what other books
I'll encounter in my life
that will change the world
or that are changing the world.
And that fact that books can
change the world just lit me up.
It gave me a sense of
hope and possibility.
Not that I had the
thought, I'm going
to write a book that
will change the world.
I couldn't conceive of that.
But that there were people
who were doing that.
And Emerson clearly was one,
and Rachel Carson was one.
And I was thinking, oh my.
The world suddenly
was brighter for me,
a brighter place, a world
that could put it back.
Because I knew the kinds of
people that we have in it.
And some of them
are pretty dark.
But if our world
can, and our species
can produce a Rachel
Carson, or an Emerson,
or eventually, by
the way, that's
how I felt about Dr.
Martin Luther King, who
I had the privilege of knowing
and being profoundly inspired
by.
If our species is capable of
being that, there is hope.
There is hope for us all.
We're not all going to
be Martin Luther Kings.
We're not all going
to be Rachel Carsons.
But if that's part of
our common humanity,
then we can all
be more like that.
We can all aspire
in that direction.
We can all see our way
towards being more that way.
And that gave me hope.
I had no idea that I
would write a book that
would change the world.
I had no idea that I would
follow in the footsteps of some
of the people that
I so admired and had
been so inspirational to me.
I only knew then that
the respectful thing
to do, for myself
and for my dad,
was to not be Mr. Robbins,
with special treatment,
but to be a member
of the human race,
with my flaws, and
complications, and defects,
to work on life to
live on its own terms.
Now, I'm sure Deo had
a lot to do with that.
But living in nature,
connecting to the natural world,
putting our roots down
into the natural world,
[EXHALES DEEPLY]
that was something I
had wanted to do, ever since
I read Rachel Carson's book.
And getting to know the deer,
getting to know the birds,
getting to know the animals,
I would meditate outside,
and the deer would come.
And they weren't
afraid of people.
And they would graze
right next to me.
And I would meditate.
I would listen to them chewing.
And I would open my
eyes and look at them.
And they weren't afraid of me.
And it would just
be right there.
And I felt like the beauty
of the natural world
was here with me, was
feeding me, was restoring me.
And I think a lot
of us today miss--
we don't know that we
miss it, but we actually
do miss connection
to the wilderness
and its fertility, its beauty,
its ability to rejuvenate us.
And I didn't really
know what I was doing.
But we were learning how
to live with the Earth,
as part of the Earth,
instead of on top of cement,
and streets, and cars, and
billboards, and flashy this
and that, and materialism,
and the war machine,
and the greed force.
We were doing something much
simpler, much more basically
human, much more difficult.
That was an underlying reality.
I mean, mostly, we're
focused on what's
the immediate needs
of the moment.
But in the background was,
yes, I had left all that.
And I was glad that I had.
And I was glad that I had the
opportunity to have a cabin,
to have the time to
meditate and do yoga.
That's a privilege.
It didn't cost a
lot of money to live
the way we did because
it was very inexpensive.
And my poker and bridge
winnings lasted a while.
Eventually, I began teaching
yoga and leading yoga workshops.
And we got income that way.
Not a lot, but it was enough.
And we got by.
Neither of us aspired
to the conventional idea
of the good life.
We were creating our own version
of the good life, a newer
kind of good life
and an older one, one
that has its roots
in human experience
that goes back forever.
And I didn't aspire towards
the conventional good life
because I'd grown up in it.
And I saw the emptiness
that could be there,
and I just didn't
want a part of it.
Deo did not grow up wealthy.
And it was different for her.
But she didn't have
expensive taste.
And she loved me, and
she was willing to put up
with all of this because
she loved me so much.
And because she also was
drawn to a way of life that
was in accord with
the natural world
and didn't exploit and depend
on exploitation, at its root.